# i18n with `next-intl` for Next.js

`next-intl` is a lightweight internationalization (i18n) library tailored specifically for Next.js. It simplifies localization by leveraging the framework's server-side rendering (SSR) and static site generation (SSG) capabilities. The library supports dynamic translations, automatic language detection, and provides an intuitive API for formatting dates, numbers, and messages directly within React components. Designed for performance and ease of use, `next-intl` integrates seamlessly into the Next.js ecosystem while maintaining a minimal bundle size.

---

## Thoughts on `next-intl`

Personally, I find `next-intl` to be very useful, especially for providing localized routes such as `[locale]` in the app router. However, there are some nuances when using it with client components due to its server-first nature.

### Challenges with Client Components

Since `next-intl` primarily works on the server, using it effectively with client components requires some extra setup. Here are two ways to provide messages for client components:

1. **Passing Messages via Props**
   You can pass the required messages as props from the server to your client component.

2. **Providing Messages in the Root Layout**
   A more convenient approach is to provide the entire set of messages in your root layout.
   But be sure that when you are providing all messages to the client access this means that all mesages will be included into build and this can increase build size if your messages are big.
   Here's an example:

   ```tsx
   const messages = await getMessages(); // Fetch localized messages
   <NextIntlClientProvider messages={messages}>
     {children}
   </NextIntlClientProvider>
   ```

### Accessing Messages in Client Components

To access messages in client components, you can use the `useMessages` hook. However, this comes with some problems:

- **Lack of Typing**: By default, the messages object is not strongly typed, and you may need to use `any` as a type.

  ```tsx
  const t: any = useMessages();
  ```

- **Custom Typing Solution**: You can create a generic type from the keys of your messages object. This can be achieved in a similar way to what is often done in a `global.t.ts` setup.

For example:
```tsx
import type { Messages } from './path-to-message-types';

const t: Messages = useMessages();
```

---

### Original docs

`https://next-intl.dev/`